## BE440_MYY: Analysis of the Apple Transcriptome Post-Harvest

Overview:
The current repo contains code that generates analyses (ex. Gene Expression Heatmaps) 
for RNA-seq data of apple (Malus domestica) cultivars obtained from Busatto et al. 2021. 
 
Data:
This data was generated by RNA-seq analysis of 11 samples x 3 different apple cultivars at 
varying post-harvest times. 
RNA extraction was performed for each of the three biological replicates. Extracted RNA 
was used to construct a non-directional Illumina RNA-seq library, and
sequencing of libraries was performed with an Illumina HiSeq 1000 Sequencer. The libraries
were then clustered and aligned to Malus domestica CDS sequences from the NCBI Nucleotide database. 
Data obtained is an excel file with FPKM values for each sample. 
Each cultivar is reported in a distinct sheet.
Link to data:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE182822

Folder structure:
The "data" folder contains the excel data file with the FPKM values for each sample named "GSE182822_Matrix_FPKM.xlsx".
The "code" folder contains the jupyter notebook "Apple_Data_Exploratory_Analysis.ipynb" that is used to generate the heatmap "apple_top_20_ctrl_h_genes_heatmap.png" that can be found in the "data" folder.

Installation:
The "Apple_Data_Exploratory_Analysis.ipynb" jupyter notebook will generate 
different heatmaps of the genes expression of three different breeds of apples 
(Granny Smith, Golden Delicious, Fuji).

To generate a heatmap of the 20 most highly expressed genes of the apple 
breeds at time of harvest, open the "Apple_Data_Exploratory_Analysis.ipynb" 
jupyter notebook and run all the cells. 
Running all the cells will automatically generate this heatmap that is then 
saved as the "apple_top_20_ctrl_h_genes_heatmap.png" image file. 

To run the code, you will need to have Ananconda Jupyter Lab installed with the relevant packages.
Relevant packages and versions are listed below:
Python implementation: CPython
Python version       : 3.9.13
IPython version      : 7.31.1

numpy     : 1.22.2
pandas    : 1.5.2
bokeh     : 2.4.3
jupyterlab: 3.5.3
holoviews : 1.15.3

For more instructions on installing packages:
https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/installing-packages/